# Welcome to Study Docs

## Github account setup

### 1. Setting up secure email

Go to **User > Settings > Emails**:

Check **Keep my email addresses private** and take note of your secure email address in the following text like **123456+username@users.noreply.github.com**

```text
We’ll remove your public profile email and use 123456+username@users.noreply.github.com
when performing web-based Git operations (e.g. edits and merges) and sending email on your behalf.
If you want command line Git operations to use your private email you must set your email in Git.
```

### 2. Set user name and email for Github

Go to your Github project's working directory (local repo) and set a local user name and password to override the global or the system settings. Use the secure email address from previous step:

```bash
git config --local user.name <username>
git config --local user.email <your secure email address>
```

## Setup MkDocs

We use MkDocs as the primary documentation tool across all the projects and install it at the system level is recommended. As of now we use two plugins along with MkDocs to provide extra features.

Create a *requirements.txt* including below contents:

```ini
mkdocs==1.1
mkdocs-material==4.6.3
mkdocs-git-revision-date-localized-plugin==0.5.0
```

Install MkDocs with the system level `pip`:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Create a *.gitignore* including below content:

```gitignore
.vscode/
site/
```

## The Material Theme

Configure the theme in *mkdocs.yml*:

```yaml
theme: material
```

Read [more](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) about this theme.

## Deploy to Github Pages

### Maintain gh-pages by MkDocs

MkDocs can deploy the site directly to the `gh-pages` branch through the command line:

```bash
mkdocs gh-deploy
```

MkDocs will automatically create a `gh-pages` branch then push the contents in the `site` folder to the remote repository.

### Maintain gh-pages manually (Optional)

Checkout `master` branch and create an orphan `gh-pages` branch with no parent commit histories:

```bash
git checkout --orphan gh-pages
```

Remove all the unnecessary files from repo to start as a clean working directory:

```bash
git rm . -rf
```

Sometimes you may have to remove other files from the file system.

```bash
rm <files>
```

**NOTE** You don't want to remove the **.git** directory by accident.

Add only static files generated by from the SSG for the website to the working directory then push to the remote repo:

```bash
git add <static-site-files-only>
git commit -m "Add site contents"
git push -u origin gh-pages
```

Select `gh-pages branch` as pages source from GitHub settings of current repository. Wait till it's finished and visit `https://<username>.github.io/<repo>/` to browse your site.

## Deploy to Netlify

Add required packages in *requirements.txt*:

```ini
mkdocs==1.1
mkdocs-material==4.6.3
mkdocs-git-revision-date-localized-plugin==0.5.0
```

Specify a Python version in *runtime.txt*.

```text
3.7
```

Create a new site and link the git repository to netlify.

Configure the commands:

- build command: `mkdocs build`.
- site folder: `site`.

## Links

- [Material Theme Documentation](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/)
- [PyMdown Extension Documentation](https://facelessuser.github.io/pymdown-extensions/)
